thank you very much
great to be here likewise yeah excited
to be talking about this topic
um you know andrew and i have been
talking about this for at least the last
couple of months or so and it's one of
those topics that
you think you know a lot about it but
the more you talk about it the more the
more you learn so
we're going to spend the next half an
hour or so and 40 minutes taking you
through some of our observations on on
how to look at churn and define share
i'm very much looking for your kind of
participation in terms of the q and a
i'm really interested to hear your
thoughts and ideas
i should also point out that i have
three young boys under the age of 10 at
home which is why i have my
my virtual background on so i'm hoping
they will they will they will keep us
avoid avoid coming in and photobombing
so just to kick things off when we think
about um how to how to grow the business
how to grow your subscription business
it really comes down to two simple
drivers there's really only two ways
that you can grow arr
as a fast business you can reduce check
or you can grow new arr that's it
um and despite that there isn't much
clarity once you really get into the
weeds of exactly how to define churn
there's lots of different ways of
looking at it
and what we've showed here on this first
slide is just a way of kind of
visualizing how to explain the different
levers in terms of what goes into
churn and and growing new arr you start
on the left hand side with what we call
in the starting arr
so that comprises what's already
committed in terms of a multi-year
contract so say i've signed a three-year
contract with a customer's customer
science
through your contract with me this would
be maybe the second year of their
three-year contract so effectively
it's not really up for renewal so it's
almost guaranteed to come in for next
year
for an error perspective and we have
everything else everything else that has
a subscription end date that's due
or available to renew in the coming time
period churn is measured off against
that starting error
which gets you down to what we call the
renewal arr
we then add on to that any kind of
incremental new arr and that has two
main components it either comes from
existing customers
or it comes from new logos within
existing customers that typically upsell
or cross-sell
there's also this thing called a renewal
uplift which we track and measure here
at fordrock where
if you have a renewal of let's say a
hundred thousand dollars if there's a
cost of living adjustment and that grows
to let's say a hundred and two thousand
dollars
um then that uplift would typically get
calculated in terms of
our new arr so when you're layer r plus
plus the new aor gives you the ending
are the difference between your
beginning error
and your ending are is that is that
magic number that net ar
and growth in in in ar that's probably
the most important measure
when you're thinking about growth for
any subscription company or sas company
yeah and i think a lot of companies look
at obviously what the end goal
is um i think today it's exciting to
talk about what are
all the underlying uh paths that you can
get to the end goal as we talk about
you know some of the best practices for
measuring churn
um but complete agreement there's two
ways to get there
increasing sales and reducing churn
yes and i remember our annual kickoff
this year that was some of the mantras
across all the different teams
was to think about okay how do i impact
those two levels what am i doing to
grow new arr what am i doing to reduce
churn
kind of keeps it simple keeps it focused
and and helps to drive customer lifetime
value
okay so let's jump into some of the
details um i've been pulling together
with andrew's help this this idea of ten
rules to get a sar started this is
faster after
after all um and we're gonna start to
kind of go into some of these different
rules and
and break them down but yeah at its
simplest level churning like this this
bucket on the left-hand side you know
you're filling it up with new ar new
customers new new expansion sales on the
left-hand side
as you grow relationships over time that
water level rises and then churn is what
falls out the bottom
you know you you don't want to lose
customers you don't want to you want to
lose arr
you're really trying to maximize the the
value of customers over time
and so that that's a very simple concept
it starts to get much more complicated
once you get down into actually thinking
about what it really means
and there's all sorts of corner cases um
both andrew and i look after renewals
as part of our jobs at our company and
you know we were sharing quite a few
different kind of war stories around
have you come across this situation or
that situation and it's um
it's interesting because it's a concept
that's really really simple
at a high level as soon as you go kind
of down below the water it starts to get
um you know there's lots of different
ways of interpreting things
yeah absolutely and i would add to that
that you know as we get into it and
certainly as people listen to
the things that we're talking about it's
all about
translating these best practices and
measurements into your existing business
and maybe perhaps even better looking at
your business a little bit differently
based off of some of the examples and
feedback that we get today that's right
that's a really good point andrew i mean
what i'd love to do is we go through
these different 10
10 different rules as you're listening
and as you're thinking if you've come
across ideas or areas where
where you have questions in terms of how
we should look at you and how we should
think about you and i'd love to hear
about those
we'd both love to hear about those at
the end of the presentation and see if
we can help understand them
okay so the first one starts with what
what's the right churn metric that we
should be
looking at and its highest level really
you can look at this in terms of how
many
customers are we losing so customer
churn or logo churn
or how much arr annual recurring revenue
are we losing or archer
from a customer churn versus ar turn
perspective it's interesting to look at
both obviously you know losing customers
is is not good it's not it's not a
healthy sign of a business and you want
to make sure you're
managing managing and measuring that and
trying to get in front of that and if
customers are leaving you they need to
understand why they're leaving you
but it's also important to look at the
arr side as well
larger customers tend to be a little bit
more sticky than smaller customers so
what we've tend to found is that
that our customer churn rate is
sometimes a little bit higher than our
ar trim rate because it has
this longer tail of smaller customers
perhaps they they bought a solution that
wasn't quite right for their needs and
and they've moved on to something else
um so we look at both um but we would
probably prioritize this focus in
on ar churn and just to make things more
complicated you can take this concept of
ar churning and look at it in lots of
different ways
we've got this idea of a gross churn
rate which is really saying well how
much
error have we lost and how does that
compare to what we had in our beginning
error
if you remember that that initial slide
the starting area i had
what was available to you and the
multi-year contract piece so that would
be as a total of
of all of that and that's useful and
that's often used in the industry um to
sort of compare and contrast typically
anything under about a ten percent
gross term rate is pretty good anything
under about five percent gross trend
rate is fantastic
and it's definitely a very useful
indicator there's also this concept of
product churn if you're if you're
running a product team
it's really helpful to understand if
your products being used or if your
customers are
removing products they may be replacing
those products with other products which
means we haven't lost the customer we
haven't lost the
revenue but it's useful i think to
really understand and look at product
churn on a product level so you can
use that to inform product management
decisions and then there's a final one
at the bottom which we call available to
the new chair that's probably the most
useful when you're really trying to
understand that the true business
dynamics so this is basically going back
going back to that first slide it says
what of the of what we consider to be
available to renew how much of that
actually renewed
so because it doesn't have the
multi-year contracts piece which is
included in in
the gross churn it tends to be a
slightly higher rate than your gross
return rate and it tells you different
things about the underlying business
which one have you been using well i
think it's it's a really great point
because
there are there are things in every
business that can mask
any one of these metrics so the ability
to actually look at them
as they're intended in our perpetual
business we use
the available to renew and we
normalize things like fs fx
impact and price increases because it's
really important to me to
ensure that we look at the picture
what's available to renew and what we're
reviewing against that
and that's what i use is the baseline
metric to measure the team
in our sas and subscription models we do
it a little bit differently
but i do think no matter what the
business no matter how many products
folks have to offer in their business
model you pick a main line number
that you want to get to and all the
others have to be considered and defined
in order to
to holistically move the business
forward
that's great now that's a really good
point android i think you know getting
that right metric is
is so important not just for
understanding dynamics but also trying
to get in front of
the risk you know you can't really
improve something if you can't measure
it you can't measure it if you can't
define it
so this really starts with that clarity
of definition and i know we'll come on
to this a little bit later but
you get pretty quickly then to what if
this is what's important how do we align
sales behaviors and teams behaviors
around these measures
and therefore how should we how should
we structure sales compensation
so i know we'll get on to that um
shortly
okay so if we jump into um a few a few
of the
of the more nitty-gritty details what
one one which
can definitely seem quite confusing to
begin with is this concept of timing
because we have this idea that we can
book a renewal in a particular period
but it may be related to a very
different period it may be related to a
period that
like last last quarter because the
renewal slipped into this quarter
perhaps the customer's got some extra
budget they want to use up so maybe
they're renewing early
and the manual isn't due until until the
next period so it's helpful to
understand these different dynamics and
try and land with some policy decisions
around around
around how we sort of classify renewals
and therefore how we classify churns so
picture on the left-hand side tries to
sort of explain that the vertical
columns are
an example of when the renewal was was
due um
and and the the horizontal columns uh
when the renewal was actually booked so
the highlighted example is like
is a q2 so everything that was booked in
q2 this is just a fictitious example
let's say 10
let's say 10 million dollars were booked
in q2 which is number over in the far
hand right-hand side
you can see of that 10 million dollars
five million dollars was due in
in q2 so that was what we call on-time
renewals but some of
the rest of it the two million dollars
one million dollars um
were were early uh sorry slip renewals
um so
they're they're effectively late
renewals from q4 and and and q1
um on on the other side you've got two
million dollars from q three and a half
million dollars from q4 they're
effectively almost pulling so they're
kind of
early renewals or all count from a
bookings perspective and then i've also
highlighted this orange category on the
far left-hand side what we call a
win-back
and different companies have different
policies around this because we focus
mostly on enterprise customers
we have this idea of allowing a renewal
to slip
up to a period of six months oftentimes
the customers maybe are negotiating
and there may be a significant upsell
associated with with the renewal that we
haven't managed to finalize we allow
this period of six months
um to to ensure that we don't lose any
of those opportunities
after six months if a renewal is still
open we would force churn it
um and anything after six months that
then comes in we classify that as
a win back yeah i love this slide for
multiple reasons because
one you need to know where the dollars
are coming from
and you also need to know where to focus
your team so
if you just look at the outcome you may
think you're doing really well
but if you're not paying attention to
every one of these areas
that will catch up with you eventually
and so i think it's i think it's about
what the expectation is from each of
these buckets
and eventually that leads to what amount
of attention do you need to put in each
one of these
buckets and so i would say in our model
if i if i
uh speak to the perpetual model that we
had we have we have to have a certain
amount of pull forwards
you have to have a certain amount of win
backs and you have to have a certain
amount of
bookings that you do inside the period
in which they're new if you translate
that to other
sas and subscription models it's much
the same thing you have to know where
the dollars are coming from
and you also have to know where you want
to put an emphasis
um win backs aren't necessary if you get
everyone in the period in which they're
due and that takes a lot of forethought
in the process
and the focus that you put into it up
front so i think this is a
great um a great slide that
that shows that but also says there's
some metrics on the the right hand side
that you can play with a little bit
um and fine tune it to your own business
and and come up with what works
especially when you're talking about
looking at six months or three months or
90 you know 30 days or whatever the case
may be
yeah that's a good point i think you
wouldn't want to allow sort of slippage
maybe for a small business if we
probably wouldn't be quite
quite as appropriate um and the other
thing we were chatting about
around this slide is this idea of
aligning this to kind of the
compensation side
you know i've been with other teams
where um if i'm if i'm in a renewals
team i can actually hit my renewals
number by pulling forward a lot of
business
next year yeah that's right and so if
i'm if i'm missing my churn number
i can still hit my maybe maybe i hit my
hundred percent of quota maybe i go off
to achievers club
but i've done that by effectively
pulling business in from next year
obviously the the risk there is that
sometimes customers might need an
incentive to renew early and oftentimes
that
incentive could be a discount or maybe
waiving the uplift um so
there's pressure in the system if if you
allow these kind of pull-ins to offset
any sort of any sort of churn it's much
healthier i think
although not always popular with sales
teams to have
have the focus on on on really what's
happening in the period
and from a churn perspective really
trying to match that that churn to the
period in which it's due
so so if someone renews early and it has
some churn associated with it
we wouldn't typically recognize that
churn until the period in which the
renewal was due so we can kind of match
apples with apples yeah that's right and
i do think that it
speaks to where you can get
additional dollars and that usually
comes with
matching a resource with an opportunity
to have a discussion with a customer
who is hesitating to move forward based
off of multiple different reasons and
sometimes that's the value prop
maybe that's that they aren't as fully
engaged
as they should be or they don't
understand functionality features
different things that they can use to to
better their jobs and enhance their
ability to watch their business
and so um i do think there's opportunity
in there
and so by paying attention to all these
buckets where it's coming from you
certainly know where to apply that focus
but you also
understand the variables of what it
takes
to achieve well inside the period and in
future periods
not everyone makes a buying decision
inside the period in which they're due
sometimes that happens before and so you
really have to understand
where are the risks in your business and
where the dollar is coming from
yeah it's a good point and there's some
interesting indicators here right so
sometimes a a slipped renewal um could
be because there's upsell opportunity
but could also be because the customer's
trying to figure out if they want to get
off you or if they're if they're still
considering alternatives
so sometimes slip renewals can be an
indicator of of churn um and
and correspondingly pullins um can also
be a different indicator
in terms of the strength of our
relationship with the customers
opportunities to
add more into those deals to try and
drive up drive up the um
the opportunity size and it's just it's
a healthy way of looking at the business
building it into you know what's truly
on time that
that is that is that that is you know in
in what we're expecting
um what's early what's late and then how
do we build that into the plans going
forward so if customers notified me this
year that they're not going to renew
next year
then really i don't want to put that
renewal necessarily as something that is
available for a new next year if i got
that written confirmation now it doesn't
really
necessarily make sense to put that in
any kind of any kind of quota or goal we
want to make sure we recognize that
coming into the year next year so
it's just helpful to to unfortunately
salesforce isn't that good at kind of
capturing dynamic views of these
different types of opportunities but
it's helpful to get a sense of of this
kind of time-based view as
you build your plans going forward
okay uh ev even more uh detail below
that there's there's this idea of what
we've been calling
non-standard renewals and we've bucketed
those into three different groups here
um and these are sort of i don't want to
call them exceptions because they're
relatively common and any of you work in
sas or in renewals will have seen i'm
sure
variants of these different things maybe
have called them different things i
remember when i first kind of came into
this business and people started talking
to me about re-racks and co-terms i had
no idea what they were talking about
and you know it's it's it you have to
sort of live and breathe a few of them
to really understand
you know what is it the customers trying
to achieve and how we how we can help
them with their objectives which is
sometimes contractual sometimes
financial
um and and really being customer focused
through this i think is really the
driver
for how to think about this um the first
one relatively straightforward
idea co-termination so you have one
contract that has a specific beginning
and end date
and the customer wants to make life's
easy easier for them by combining that
with another contract that they have so
they don't have to have two different
contractual processes to
do renewal processes and bring those two
start and end dates together so in this
example you have a first contract a
hundred dollars
second contract is going to start
halfway through the first contract
and the customer wants to co-term the
second contract and
and and the first contract to the to the
end start date
um and so what we would typically do
there is is we we would
we would uh recognize no churn on the
account
because the ar value is is growing it's
growing from the beginning of the period
to a hundred dollars the end of the
period to two hundred dollars
um it's just that the first contract is
going to be a shorter term contract it's
only going to be six months to extend it
so you've got the same the same end date
um so aligning contract start and end
date is relatively common um
and is is is often something that that
that
uh maybe gets flagged as a churn in the
system but isn't actually a churn
you know it's not really a churn because
we're co-terming with those other
contracts over here so it's helpful just
to get visibility of those and to tie
those off with finance so you don't have
um differences in reporting
uh the second one is what we're calling
re-racks it's the
basic concept of taking my existing
contract which hasn't quite finished yet
maybe i'm halfway through my first
contract
and for whatever reason the customer
doesn't want to continue with that first
contract perhaps the products and
services
they purchased are not really what they
wanted they would like to buy a
different contract maybe a much larger
contract
maybe they're moving from on-prem to the
cloud or maybe that they have one use
case and they don't
want to try a different use case in
certain instances it may make sense to
give the customer some kind of credit
for the remaining balance on their first
contract you wouldn't want to do it as a
standard policy
but in certain instances particularly if
that second contract is very significant
you may want to give them some credit
for the remaining value on their first
contract
so you take the first contract you
combine it with the second contract you
come up with a new
arr number um and again typically what
we would do here is we wouldn't take
any churn as long as the ar value is
growing you don't want to be combining
it into
into a smaller contract as long as that
contract is getting combined into a
large contract
then you would you would recognize it um
as a zero chair and then the full value
of the combined contracts at the end of
the period
um so again another common reason where
it might be it might be
buddhist chur first blush but that
typically isn't once you understand what
the customer's trying to do
if you think about it we're growing the
air our relationship with customers so
so that that really shouldn't be churned
and i do think that in a non-standard um
year of coven a lot of these requests
have gone up because
people are trying to achieve multiple
purposes first and foremost budget
and second of all timing becomes
incredibly important and so we certainly
on our part have seen a significant
uptick in
all of these requests and payment terms
right that goes along with it
yes yes it's it's uh it's it's
interesting i'm sure you're the same
andrew but we have
um because we service all different
industries and all different types of
customers
we have certain customers who are just
absolutely
killing i mean doing amazing business
you know we have um diy stores that we
support that are doing black friday
almost every week
then we also have cruise ships and
cruise liners and and
hotels that have not had any customers
for the past
past almost a year now so um it's it's
it's really putting a spotlight on where
can we add some flexibility
um to the renewal process to reflect the
fact that on the on the you know
on the covered impacted side that
they're not getting as much value right
now
um and and they're struggling um and one
of the things we can do which is the
last idea down here is this less than
12-month renewal idea so
you know maybe we go to a shorter term
contract maybe we reduce the ar for a
short-term contract and then we agree
that we're going to put it back up
together
after that shorter term contract and the
simple rule of thumb here is to remember
that we're talking about annual
recurring revenue so arr
so even if the customer is just renewing
for one extra month
as long as they're renewing at the full
arr value there shouldn't be any churn
so to keep it simple let's say you've
got a contract 120 000
contract and they want to renew it for
one extra month for ten thousand dollars
ten thousand dollars for one month is
still a hundred and twenty thousand
dollars for the year so you wouldn't
actually recognize any churn on that
although you will probably forecast some
because typically if customers are
looking for something like that it tends
to mean that they're interested in
moving off or moving to something else
yeah that's right we had a great example
of this in in
our business at the beginning in code we
had a big customer that was a theater
and theaters were closed and so in their
case they weren't quite sure what the
outlook was going to be and so we worked
with them
um to arrange a less than 12-month
renewal for them knowing that they would
have another
buying decision down the road but it put
him in a better time frame
and prepared to make that decision so as
soon as they
opened up we were ready to to rock and
roll as we would say
going forward but i do think that this
is another area where
requests have gone up as people are
trying to time up to uh buying decisions
just based off the
economy their business and how things
are going
yeah that's that's a really good example
because you know kobe particularly with
things across the vaccines that are
coming right is is going to be the
definition of a
you know business as usual significant
reduction and then
hopefully back again business as usual
so it's understandable
and i think this can show some of that
flexibility in terms of keeping you know
keeping the focus on customer success
which is what it's all about
okay then we have some examples around
is is this really churn and we've talked
a bit about this first one this idea of
a sort of a temporary reduction or
or soft churn um and you can look at
this in in lots of in lots of different
ways
and how we typically look at it is if
there's a temporary reduction for a
short period of time let's say within
within the six month period
as long as at the end of that period the
customer is is effectively
renewing the full amount and and kind of
go get getting back to whole
um then we wouldn't typically take churn
if if if it's longer than that we would
typically take churn and if it goes back
up again we would kind of classify that
as a win back
i don't know what's your experience
andrea been on the soft journey it's
exactly the same
and i think it's interesting because
we've come across just
just based off of what's happened over
the last few months
some examples that we didn't even have
in our model
that are now in our model after a
conversation and figuring out what to do
because we've had a lot of great
examples that have come up where
customer customers have
really been in unique situations
and so i agree with you i think
we use a little bit of a different
timing so in our case we
have a different timing across different
business units
one of our business units uses three
months
one of our business units uh uses uh
30 days and the other one is more of a
real time
uh whether we take take churn on it or
not and then classify it as a win back
after the fact
um so we have variable models inside our
business units
interesting i mean i think that touches
on the early point you made about like
making sure that you're applying this to
your business dynamics it really starts
with understanding your customers
what they're trying to achieve and how
you can sort of that's right develop a
definition for churn that fits
fits with that model that's really
that's really helpful um
the second idea is around what we call
change in product
so they switch out one widget and they
switch it in for a different widget um
this in principle is is pretty
straightforward to understand i mean we
take churn
at a customer account level so as long
as let's say it's a hundred thousand
dollar renewal as long as they retain a
hundred thousand dollars or more then we
wouldn't typically take churn on that
um sounds simple in principle but can
lead to some questions in practice
um oftentimes maybe a customer has you
know stopped a particular use case or
if they're a government customer maybe
they had a funding vehicle for a
particular use case and that's
effectively stopped or the products
ended
and now they want to go buy something
completely different over here requires
a kind of a resale effort
um and so there's a little bit of
conflict there because what you may need
to have your field sales teams involved
in that resale activity
but typically we wouldn't pay on kind of
incremental new arr unless it met that
first definition on the first slide in
other words it's
it's kind of incremental to the churn
amount um so that's something that's
really important when it comes to sales
compensation and making sure that people
understand
how do you define an account yeah and i
do think that business theory comes into
play here that's why
i think it's important for folks to kind
of take a look at
what do they want to happen and then you
wrap a behavior behind it i think in
our case our motto at solarwinds is no
customer left behind and that means
if we need to uh really dig in and find
out what
what k-snare is going to work for them
we'll figure out
the back end of that but our guiding
principle
is we never lose a customer we try never
to lose a customer
and and that means that we'll introduce
variables into our business that maybe
some other businesses aren't willing to
do and
and so we do this change in in product
um on an exception basis but we're open
to the conversation
again because of the motto of new
customer left behind we want them to be
a solid
yeah yeah yeah i love i love that model
that's a that's a really it's a really
good kind of true north i think
um obviously it's important to
understand these dynamics
you wouldn't want to brush this over
this is this again is it's useful
for the product teams if if if customers
are churning off certain solutions and
and
buying a different solution it's very
really clear you know the demand is
there for
for something that that is um um really
helpful to define product lifecycle and
product product roadmaps going forward
so it's important to track this
but it's important also not to not not
to count it as churn unless
unless the customer actually the value
of the customer is declining you can get
into all sorts of discussions then
around okay what is a customer
okay if i'm if i'm if i'm a company
that's just been acquired by another
company
does that mean the customer's changed
and if there's churn therefore do i need
to take it or not
um you could be a government entity you
know the state of california is that a
customer or is the department of
education a customer
or the navy as the navy customer or is
you know the particular division within
the navy customer so
it's helpful to go into into planning um
with clarity and
of these definitions written down so
everyone understands what that customer
definition looks like and then you can
really track the health the health of
the customer relationship
on an ongoing basis um and as long as
that's growing not declining then you
wouldn't take then take charge
yeah and and the third one's the third
one similar similar in principle what we
call a change in channel
so at least for our product a lot of our
solutions are delivered or implemented
by
by partners um sometimes they're sold
through partners
and if that's the case sometimes the
customer may be quite happy with our
solution but they're not happy with the
partner for whatever reason they want to
move from partner a to partner b um
if if the partner is the account of
record in other words we're selling to
the partner and they're reselling on
sometimes you can miss that um if you're
not really engaging with the customers
so it's always important to engage with
the end customers at least in the
enterprise business
um what do you do tim when that when one
channel partner may have
a different margin than the other one
what do you do with the balance of that
do you consider that turn or you look at
the
account as whole yeah that's a great
question
um typically we would look at the arr
value coming in from that
from that customer through that that
channel so if that arr goes down because
the margin changes then you know we
would take some kind of churn on that's
a really good question
yeah that's really interesting but but
the principle is is still the same if
um if the customer is not leaving us if
their
if their amount they're spending with us
is not is not going down then there
shouldn't be churn
um and this again you can get into some
some challenging situations sometimes if
a sales team
has been working hard with a particular
partner and a different partner
not very happy and you get a little bit
of conflict sometimes in the situation
but the guiding principle needs to be
you know we need to be incentivizing our
more expensive field sales teams around
growing customer accounts
so all of these things if they're not
growing customer accounts the the
economics the customer acquisition cost
the lifetime value
doesn't really stack up to pay the the
full commission on on on effectively
just just treading water
so it's really important to get this
correct setup at the beginning of the
year um but it's also i think important
to have some exceptions process as you
go through this because
i'm sure as you know as andrew you
pointed out yeah we we've definitely
learned a lot in terms of how kobit
could impact some of the financial
decisions that's right that's right yeah
okay so this is a a detailed slide i
wouldn't propose kind of going through
all of this but this
i thought it might just be helpful to
share how we think about defining a
working definition
so this is actually what we use um and
it's been developed over time
to track and report on this available to
a new churn rate what we consider to be
the primary kind of business health
indicator the other indicators we talked
about are
all very helpful still and we still
report on those but this is the one that
we really use to manage the business
on a day-to-day basis with with the
teams so we look at all of those rules
we've talked about we look at
um churn that is uh really
mapped to that period so if it was early
churn from previous periods on time term
from this period
or anything that that has now slipped
but gone beyond uh six months
take off the win back um no churn for
those corner cases we talked through
um keeping it at a contracting entity
level a customer level not a product
level no change of channel churn
and then we typically take fx based on
the time of churn
now we compare that to this available to
a new pool um so you take what was
originally available to renew um less
the contractually the multi-year video
so you take that piece out of it because
um they've already committed to radio
and we include within that pool
um that the full amount that was
originally available to renew so
anything that's obviously still open
anything that was closed in prior
periods so it's really an apple
strapless comparison we also include
slip deals
because by definition if we've slipped
them we haven't forced churn churnum yet
they are still available to renew
and then we typically track the fx
impact separately because you have to
kind of
fix the fx at certain points during the
period and there's lots of different
ways of
of looking at apex was it based on when
the original contract was done it was
based on when the plan was set was it
based on when we actually booked the
deal so
lots of funny games around there so that
that that's that's one way of looking at
it i'm sure there are lots of others
but that's the one that we've been using
so those are the ten different rules um
i'll just kind of run through them
quickly and then hand over to andrea to
kind of talk about some of the takeaways
for the session
um but yeah we we we focus primarily on
ar archer and
within that we focus primarily on
available to review if you're running a
renewals team a custom success team i
think that's probably the best metric
in terms of understanding performance
and health the business from a timing
perspective we try and
understand the dynamics in terms of
early versus late churn
but we try and make sure we're matching
the churn to the available to a new
period as much as possible
exceptions around less than 12 months
co-terms and re-racks typically don't
involve churn as long as the arr value
is growing from the beginning of the
period to the end of period
same thing with soft churn change of
product changing channel there's lots of
variability typically within that
but as long as i'm coming out the other
side with a customer who's spending the
same amount or more then we shouldn't
really be taking churn on an annualized
basis
yeah very good so it is funny to turn it
into a list of 10 because
um i would tell you there's
there's so many uh nuances underneath
this but i think these are really a
it's a really great set of highlights of
where to start and build that out
i think building a working definition
and updating the corner cases
as you learn is incredibly important if
i look at the case of solarwinds where
we started is certainly not where we're
at today
um and when we started the effort
wrapped around this we looked at
what were our goals and objectives and
if you are a brand new company you get
to start there if you're not a brand new
company then you have to have a subset
of data to say where do we feel like
we've been performing before
where do we want to go and then what are
the things that we need to consider
along the way as we measure this and as
you
if you're building a team to pay
attention to it if you're trying to
figure out what comp plans look like
then all of those things have to align
with where you want to end up but i
would say
um if i was to to give an example with
all these variables it's a bit like
buying a car
and knowing that you want a red car and
you've got 10 of them lined up and
somebody says pick one you just can't do
it not until you look under the hood
and you see the mechanics of how it runs
you set in the seat
is this going to work for me for for the
long drive it's all of those variables
that are so personal to your business
because again you have that end goal in
fact in fact and so i think
um focusing on some of those underlying
business dynamics for your
individual business i think as long as
i've been doing this it's just been a
long time it's
it's taking others best practices and
marrying it with what you know about
your business
and coming out with what works for you
and then i do think that you have to
track
the various reasons for churn because
um it's just as important to know
when things are going well why and when
they're not going well
why and and where is where is the
uh the place that you can kind of zero
in to focus on
and that becomes for your metrics of the
things that have to work
it it not only helps you with that focus
and what your defined success but it
leads to predictability
which you and i both know in this
business is likely the most
important thing can you predict
where you're gonna land and and uh
um you know if we look in terms of
gambling i think i think some people do
that but you can't do that until
you get to a place where you know the
metrics so well that you can have a
feeling about where your business is and
that comes from defining
clearly defining what those things are
that you want to measure
again all tied and leading to the end
result that you want
and then you use those things to become
predictable about where you're going to
land
would you add to that no tim was that
was perfect i completely agree with
with all of that um i think the only
thing i would do is maybe kind of coming
right back to the beginning right
there's only two leaders to grow the
business
that's right grow new arr grow net new
arr
and when you think about it you know we
companies in our in our space report on
arr all the time you know they have a
sense of what's your ar how is it
growing
so they are having to define this churn
rate and unfortunately there isn't
right now you know generally accept the
counted principles for how to define
churn
so i think it's going to be one of those
things that as more and more businesses
become
cloud orientated sass or entertainment
ultimately customer success orientated
i think this topic is going to get
probably a lot a lot more light shown on
it
and what andrea is saying about you know
really taking the time to understand and
think
through how your business operates with
your customers how they're getting value
from the products
um what contractual terms what licensing
models you have in place
um what flexibility you want to offer
under different different types of
scenarios all of that can help
inform a sort of a judgement call in
terms of how how to build a working
definition
yeah but you're absolutely right really
the only thing about these models that
isn't negotiable
are the two things that you have to pay
attention to to make a difference
and that is growing the business and
minimizing churn
i think underneath that is where you get
unique
uh with different businesses and
practices that you're absolutely right
it really is those two things
thanks for your time i'm a bit of a geek
about this topic i love kind of
discussing and getting into the weeds if
anyone has any
anyone has any questions or any feedback
um i'm always looking
we're always looking to improve our
understanding collectively it's been
really great fun working with andrea
and just understanding how solarwinds
approach this because it's definitely
not a one-size-fits-all approach as she
said
i love the car analogy so you know this
is definitely i think an area where the
community
the fast community can can help each
other and and just get a better
understanding of churn so so thanks for
the time
i appreciate it too tim because tim's um
incredibly analytical and has brought a
good insight
into exactly where things should fall
and um and i like the operations side as
well
and so i think those things have
complemented each other both with the
common goal
um which is to increase arr right that's
the ultimate goal for everyone
well thank you guys this has been
terrific i know everyone's appreciated
it we've been so lucky to have you so
again thank you and hopefully we'll see
you guys soon and i hope you have a
great day
thank you thank you
[Music]
you